---
layout: publication
title: "Exploring Associations of Clinical and Social Parameters with Violent Behaviors among Psychiatric Patients"
excerpt:
modified:
categories: publication
author: hjdai
journal: Journal of Biomedical Informatics
type: SCI
author_list: "Hong-Jie Daia, Emily Chia-Yu Su, Mohy Uddin, Jitendra Jonnagaddala, Chi-Shin Wu, Shabbir Syed-Abdul"
tags: [Biomedical Text Mining, Journal]
image:
  feature:
date: 2017-08-16
modified: 
link: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1532046417301880
comments: true
share: true
---

## Abstract

Evidence has revealed interesting associations of clinical and social parameters with violent behaviors of patients with psychiatric disorders. Men are more violent preceding and during hospitalization, whereas women are more violent than men throughout the 3 days following a hospital admission. It has also been proven that mental disorders may be a consistent risk factor for the occurrence of violence. In order to better understand violent behaviors of patients with psychiatric disorders, it is important to investigate both the clinical symptoms and psychosocial factors that accompany violence in these patients. In this study, we utilized a dataset released by the Partners Healthcare and Neuropsychiatric Genome-scale and RDoC Individualized Domains project of Harvard Medical School to develop a unique text mining pipeline that processes unstructured clinical data in order to recognize clinical and social parameters such as age, gender, history of alcohol use, violent behaviors, etc., and explored the associations between these parameters and violent behaviors of patients with psychiatric disorders. The aim of our work was to demonstrate the feasibility of mining factors that are strongly associated with violent behaviors among psychiatric patients from unstructured psychiatric evaluation records using clinical text mining. Experiment results showed that stimulants, followed by a family history of violent behavior, suicidal behaviors, and financial stress were strongly associated with violent behaviors. Key aspects explicated in this paper include employing our text mining pipeline to extract clinical and social factors linked with violent behaviors, generating association rules to uncover possible associations between these factors and violent behaviors, and lastly the ranking of top rules associated with violent behaviors using statistical analysis and interpretation.