---
layout: publication
title: "Assessing the severity of positive valence symptoms in initial psychiatric evaluation records: Should we use convolutional neural networks?"
excerpt:
modified:
categories: publication
author: hjdai
journal: plos
type: SCI
author_list: "Hong-Jie Dai, Jitendra Jonnagaddala"
tags: [Clinical Data Mining, Journal]
image:
  feature:
date: 2018-10-16
modified: 
link: https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0204493
comments: true
share: true
---

## Abstract

Background and objective
Efficiently capturing the severity of positive valence symptoms could aid in risk stratification for adverse outcomes among patients with psychiatric disorders and identify optimal treatment strategies for patient subgroups. Motivated by the success of convolutional neural networks (CNNs) in classification tasks, we studied the application of various CNN architectures and their performance in predicting the severity of positive valence symptoms in patients with psychiatric disorders based on initial psychiatric evaluation records.

Methods
Psychiatric evaluation records contain unstructured text and semi-structured data such as question–answer pairs. For a given record, we tokenise and normalise the semi-structured content. Pre-processed tokenised words are represented as one-hot encoded word vectors. We then apply different configurations of convolutional and max pooling layers to automatically learn important features from various word representations. We conducted a series of experiments to explore the effect of different CNN architectures on the classification of psychiatric records.

Results
Our best CNN model achieved a mean absolute error (MAE) of 0.539 and a normalized MAE of 0.785 on the test dataset, which is comparable to the other well-known text classification algorithms studied in this work. Our results also suggest that the normalisation step has a great impact on the performance of the developed models.

Conclusions
We demonstrate that normalisation of the semi-structured contents can improve the MAE among all CNN configurations. Without advanced feature engineering, CNN-based approaches can provide a comparable solution for classifying positive valence symptom severity in initial psychiatric evaluation records. Although word embedding is well known for its ability to capture relatively low-dimensional similarity between words, our experimental results show that pre-trained embeddings do not improve the classification performance. This phenomenon may be due to the inability of word embeddings to capture problem specific contextual semantic information implying the quality of the employing embedding is critical for obtaining an accurate CNN model.

