---
layout: publication
title: "Family member information extraction via neural sequence labeling models with different tag schemes"
excerpt:
modified:
categories: publication
author: hjdai
journal: BMC
type: SCI
author_list: "Hong-Jie Dai"
tags: [Biomedical Text Mining, Journal]
image:
  feature:
date: 2019-12-27
modified: 
link: https://bmcmedinformdecismak.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12911-019-0996-4
comments: true
share: true
---

## Abstract

Background 

Family history information (FHI) described in unstructured electronic health records (EHRs) is a valuable information source for patient care and scientific researches. Since FHI is usually described in the format of free text, the entire process of FHI extraction consists of various steps including section segmentation, family member and clinical observation extraction, and relation discovery between the extracted members and their observations. The extraction step involves the recognition of FHI concepts along with their properties such as the family side attribute of the family member concept.

Methods

This study focuses on the extraction step and formulates it as a sequence labeling problem. We employed a neural sequence labeling model along with different tag schemes to distinguish family members and their observations. Corresponding to different tag schemes, the identified entities were aggregated and processed by different algorithms to determine the required properties.

Results

We studied the effectiveness of encoding required properties in the tag schemes by evaluating their performance on the dataset released by the BioCreative/OHNLP challenge 2018. It was observed that the proposed side scheme along with the developed features and neural network architecture can achieve an overall F1-score of 0.849 on the test set, which ranked second in the FHI entity recognition subtask.

Conclusions

By comparing with the performance of conditional random fields models, the developed neural network-based models performed significantly better. However, our error analysis revealed two challenging issues of the current approach. One is that some properties required cross-sentence inferences. The other is that the current model is not able to distinguish between the narratives describing the family members of the patient and those specifying the relatives of the patient’s family members.
