---
layout: publication
title: "NTTMUNSW System for n2c2 Track1: Cohort Selection for Clinical Trails"
excerpt:
modified:
categories: publication-con
author: Feng-Duo Wang
journal: Proceedings of the 2018 n2c2 Shared-Task and Workshop, Washington DC., USA.
type: IEEE
author_list: "Feng-Duo Wang, Chih-Wei Chen, Hong-Jie Dai, Chu-Hsien Su, Chi-Shin Wu, Jitendra Jonnagaddala"
tags: [MOST 106-2221-E-143-007-MY3. 本人 為通訊作者., Conference]
image:
  feature:
date: 2023-03-25
modified: 
link: https://europepmc.org/article/med/32360937
comments: true
share: true
---

## Abstract

Identifying patients eligible for clinical trials using electronic health records (EHRs) is a challenging task usually requiring a comprehensive analysis of information stored in multiple EHRs of a patient. The goal of this study is to investigate different methods and their effectiveness in identifying patients that meet specific eligibility selection criteria based on patients' longitudinal records. An unstructured dataset released by the n2c2 cohort selection for clinical trials track was used, each of which included 2-5 records manually annotated to thirteen pre-defined selection criteria. Unlike the other studies, we formulated the problem as a multiple instance learning (MIL) task and compared the performance with that of the rule-based and the single instance-based classifiers. Our official best run achieved an average micro-F score of 0.8765 which was ranked as one of the top ten results in the track. Further experiments demonstrated that the performance of the MIL-based classifiers consistently yield better performance than their single-instance counterparts in the criteria that require the overall comprehension of the information distributed among all of the patient's EHRs. Rule-based and single instance learning approaches exhibited better performance in criteria that don't require a consideration of several factors across records. This study demonstrated that cohort selection using longitudinal patient records can be formulated as a MIL problem. Our results exhibit that the MIL-based classifiers supplement the rule-based methods and provide better results in comparison to the single instance learning approaches.
