---
layout: publication
title: "Robust fault recognition and correction scheme for induction motors using an effective IoT with deep learning approach"

excerpt:
modified:
categories: publication
author: Minh‐Quang Tran
journal: Journal of the International Measurement Confederation (IMEKO)
type: 
author_list: "Minh‐Quang Tran, Mohammed Amer, Alya' Dababat, Almoataz Y. Abdelaziz, Hong-Jie Dai, Meng-Kun Liu, Mahmoud Elsisi (2023, Feb). Robust fault recognition and correction scheme for induction motors using an effective IoT with deep learning approach. Measurement, 207"
tags: []
image: 
  feature:
date: 2022-12-21
modified: 
link: https://academic.oup.com/database/article/doi/10.1093/database/baac108/7025388?login=false
comments: true
share: true
---

## Abstract

Maintaining electrical machines in good working order and increasing their life expectancy is one of the main challenges. Precocious and accurate detection of faults is crucial to this process. Induction motors (IMs) are among these machines widely utilized in various fields including industrial and domestic applications that require effective detection of their status. This paper proposes a novel fault recognition and correction (FRC) scheme based on the internet of things (IoT) and deep learning for IMs. In the developed system, vibration signals during motor operation are used to generate bearing fault features, which are inputted to the designed deep learning model to successfully identify bearing faults. The robustness of the proposed approach is tested against a false data injection (FDI) attack. Further, the proposed deep learning approach has been assessed and compared with other state-of-the-art algorithms available in the literature. Experimental testing has been carried out on a real IM to perform the suitability of the developed fault detection and correction scheme. Compared to other fault recognition techniques, the proposed method proves to be more effective. In essence, the results verified the robustness of the novel proposed strategy against the FDI attack making it possible to recognize faults with confidence and improve decision-making to determine the motor's status.

