---
layout: publication
title: "Augmenting DSM-5 diagnostic criteria with self- attention-based BiLSTM models for psychiatric diagnosis"

excerpt:
modified:
categories: publication
author: Chi-Shin Wu
journal: Artificial Intelligence in Medicine
type: 
author_list: "Chi-Shin Wu, Chien-Hung Chen, Chu-Hsien Su, Yi-Ling Chien, Hong-Jie Dai, Hsin-Hsi Chen"
tags: [Artificial Intelligence in Medicine, Journal]
image: 
  feature:
date: 2023-01-09
modified: 
link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0933365723000027?via%3Dihub
comments: true
share: true
---

## Abstract

Background: Most previous studies make psychiatric diagnoses based on diagnostic terms. In this study we sought to augment Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 5th Edition (DSM-5) diagnostic criteria with deep neural network models to make psychiatric diagnoses based on psychiatric notes.

Methods: We augmented DSM-5 diagnostic criteria with self-attention-based bidirectional long short-term memory (BiLSTM) models to identify schizophrenia, bipolar, and unipolar depressive disorders. Given that the diagnostic criteria for psychiatric diagnosis include a certain symptom profile and functional impairment, we first extracted psychiatric symptoms and functional features with two approaches, including a lexicon-based approach and a dependency parsing approach. Then, we incorporated free-text discharge notes and extracted features for psychiatric diagnoses with the proposed models.

Results: The micro-averaged F1 scores of the two automatic annotation approaches were greater than 0.8. BiLSTM models with self-attention outperformed the rule-based models with DSM-5 criteria in the prediction of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, while the latter outperformed the former in predicting unipolar depressive disorder. Approaches for augmenting DSM-5 criteria with a self-attention-based BiLSTM outperformed both pure rule-based and pure deep neural network models. In terms of classification of psychiatric diagnoses, we observed that the performance for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder was acceptable.

Conclusion: This DSM-5-augmented deep neural network models showed good performance in identifying psychiatric diagnoses from psychiatric notes. We conclude that it is possible to establish a model that consults clinical notes to make psychiatric diagnoses comparably to physicians. Further research will be extended to outpatient notes and other psychiatric disorders.

Keywords: Electronic health records; Knowledge-augmented deep neural network; Psychiatric diagnosis.

